# INSTALL.pod
# 1.3.X series
# Copyright 2005 by the dirvish project
# http://www.dirvish.org
#
# Last Revision   : $Rev: 14 $
# Revision date   : $Date: 2005-02-11 12:06:20 -0800 (Fri, 11 Feb 2005) $
# Last Changed by : $Author: keithl $
# Stored as       : $HeadURL: http://www.dirvish.org/svn/dirvish_1_3_khl/INSTALL.pod $

# THIS FILE MUST BE CHANGED SIGNIFICANTLY FOR VERSION 1.3

=head1 INSTALLATION and GETTING STARTED


=head1 PREREQUISITES

=over
 linux/unix/bsd/solaris/Mac_OSX on the dirvish server.
 backup clients that can run rsync and preferably ssh.
 
 rsync version 2.5.6 or higher.
 rsync version 2.6.0 or higher may be needed if backing up windows.

 perl5 and these perl modules (if you aren't familiar with
 perl see CPAN(3pm)).
  	POSIX
  	Getopt::Long
  	Time::ParseDate
    	Time::Period by Patric Ryan
        Module::Build >= 0.26

Lots of empty disk space.  I recommend using volume management (see lvm(8)).

Ssh configured so root on the backup server can use ssh
non-interactively to the backup clients.  This does not
necessarily mean it has to be able to be root on those clients.

=back

=head1 INSTALL

Dirvish is installed with the Build.PL perl script from inside the
unpack/download directory.  The script makes other scripts that will
install the various portions of dirvish in default locations.   The
program is installed with the following three commands:

	./Build.PL <options>
        ./Build
	./Build install <options>          (as root!)

You can change the locations where dirvish places the files with
the following command line options for the first ./Build.PL or
the third /Build install :

        --install_path conf=/etc/dirvish
        --install_path share=/usr/share
        --install_path sharedoc=/usr/share/doc
        --install_path man5dir=/usr/share/man/man5
        --install_path man8dir=/usr/share/man/man8
        --install_path sbin=/usr/sbin

The default locations are shown;  you may change these as you wish.
Be sure you have write permissions for the installation directories.

You can do a dry run to see where files would be installed with:

        ./Build fakeinstall

You can clean out intermediate files from the install directory with:
 
        ./Build realclean

Module::Build has a number of other useful tricks.  You can learn
about them by doing a "man Module::Build"

=head1 CONFIGURATION

When dirvish is run, it will read the configuration files to determine
where to get data (a backup set), then make a backup image copy of that
data.  Dirvish stores the backup images in "vault" directories.  Plan
on one vault per backup set.  Vaults can contain hundreds of backup
images, added by dirvish or dirvish-runall, and removed by dirvish-expire.

While it is possible to back up more than one backup set into a vault,
using a dirvish feature called a "branch", that is complicated and
rarely used for typical small networks.

Vault directories are stored in "banks", which are higher level
directories.  You will create one or more directories as banks
in which to place the vaults;  You can create a large filesystem for
each bank if you are not using LVM, and store multiple vaults.  If
you are using LVM, you may prefer to make a filesystem for each vault.

Inside the banks create one mount-point directory (vault) for
each backup set (ex: home).  Start by making each filesystem
about 1.5 times the size of the filesystem or directory tree
it will be used to back up.  Mount 'em up.  The FAQ has
additional details about how these filesystems should be built.


  The Master Configuration File
 	
Create the file /etc/dirvish/master.conf on your backup server.
It might look something like this:

 	bank:
 	 	/e/backup1
 	 	/e/backup2
 	exclude:
 	 	lost+found/
 	 	*~
 	 	.nfs*
 	Runall:
 	 	jane-app
 	 	jane-data
 	 	jane-home
 	 	jane-site 	22:00
 	expire-default: +15 days
 	expire-rule:
 	#       MIN HR    DOM MON       DOW  STRFTIME_FMT
 	 	*   *     *   *         1    +3 months
 	 	*   *     1-7 *         1    +1 year
 	 	*   *     1-7 1,4,7,10  1
 	 	*   10-20 *   *         *    +4 days

This configuration file creates two bank directories, /e/backup1
and /e/backup2.  It excludes some files and directories from all
backups, in this case all directories named "lost+found", all 
files ending in a tilde (~), and all files starting with ".nfs".
When dirvish-runall is called by cron, it backs up four vaults
in the order shown.  The backup images will be stored in tree
directories, such as:

  /e/backup1/jane-app/2005-1125-0426/tree

With the year, date, hour and minute used to construct the name
of the image, as a timestamp (in this case, November 25, 2005 at
0426).  If an optional time field is added, then the backup image
name is set that hour and minute instead, on the previous day if
necessary to mark the time before the actual start of the backup.
For example, the last vault as shown above might be stored in a
directory named:

  /e/backup2/jane-site/2005-1124-2200/tree

The expire-default and expire-rule entries determine when dirvish-expire
should deletes backups.  If dirvish-expire is not run, these rules are
never used.  You can put many other configuration options in the 
master.conf file, and you can also put additional exclude and expire
rules in the per-vault configuration files described below.  See the
dirvish.conf(5) man page for more information.


   Per-vault configuration:

Each vault must contain a dirvish subdirectory, containing a
default.conf configuration file.

Here is an example of a configuration file for a vault named
jane-home, in /e/backup1/jane-home/dirvish/default.conf:

 	client: jane
 	tree: /home
        xdev: 1
 	exclude:
 	        /**/.*/**/*cache/
 	 	/**/.*/*cache/
 	 	/**/.*/**/*Cache/
                /fred
 	 	.kde/share/thumbnails/

This contains additional excluded files and directories, which
add onto those described in master.conf.  The default.conf file
also tells dirvish which client machine to back up, what directory
or filesystem on that machine, and (in this case) not to cross
filesystem boundaries during backup.  If the excludes begin with
a /, as shown, they are relative to the start of the backup tree.

If you wish, you can exclude a directory, say /home/fred as shown
above, then back it up into another vault, with tree: /home/fred .

   Dirvish initialization and daily operation:

Now that you are configured create an initial image by running
dirvish on the backup server like so:

 	root# dirvish --vault home --init

If you add the --no-run option you will see what it will try
to do, without actually moving any data.

To do a regular backup you now only would need to execute
"dirvish --vault home"

After you create your image you can look at the log and summary
files to see what was done.

I strongly recommend reading the dirvish and dirvish.conf manpages.

Work on your exclude lists and have fun.

dirvish.runall will run dirvish on all of the vault[:branch]s
listed in the Runall list in /etc/dirvish.conf .

Because dirvish handles calculating expiration dates
automatically you need only add two entries to crontab to
completely automate your dirvish backups.

 	10 03 * * *     root /site/sbin/dirvish-expire --quiet
 	18 03 * * *     root /site/sbin/dirvish-runall --quiet

Note that both dirvish-runall and dirvish-expire are scheduled
after 22:00 as specified in the Runall: parameter.

You can run dirvish more than once a day.  However, divish will
refuse to make more than one image with the same name, so you 
should not use the optional hour:minute parameter for the vault
in the runall list, and instead let dirvish mark the image with
the actual time. 

=cut
