# RELEASE.pod
# 1.3.X series
# Copyright 2005 by the dirvish project
# http://www.dirvish.org
#
# Last Revision   : $Rev$
# Revision date   : $Date$
# Last Changed by : $Author$
# Stored as       : $HeadURL$

=head1 DIRVISH RELEASE NOTES

=head2 Dirvish version 1.2.1 released 18 February 2005

=over

=item * Corrected ANOTHER logic inversion bug in B<pre-client> and
B<post-client> that resulted in the wrong working directory.

=item * Changed rsync code 24 from error to warning.

=item * Changed == to = in the install script.

=item * Allow the use of spaces protected by a backslash in the source
tree name.

=back


=head2 Dirvish version 1.2 released 24 February 2003

=over

=item * Corrected a logic inversion bug in B<pre-client> and
B<post-client> that resulted in the scripts running on the server. They
will now run on the client as intended.

=item * License changed to OSL.

=back

=head2 Dirvish version 1.1.2 released 15 July 2003

=head2 Dirvish version 1.1.1 released 26 May 2003

No issues

=head2 Dirvish version 1.1 released 17 May 2003

=over

=item * The master and default config files have been renamed.

 /etc/dirvish/dirvish.conf --> /etc/dirvish/master.conf
 $VAULT/dirvish/dirvish.conf --> $VAULT/dirvish/default.conf

=item * The B<rsync-options:> option has been replaced with
B<rsync-option:> which only accepts one option per specification.

=back

=cut

#Pod::HTML2Pod conversion notes:
#From file RELEASE.html
# 908 bytes of input
#Thu Feb 10 20:03:04 2005 keithl
# No a_name switch not specified, so will not try to render <a name='...'>
# No a_href switch not specified, so will not try to render <a href='...'>
