# TODO.pod
# 1.3.X series
# Copyright 2005 by the dirvish project
# http://www.dirvish.org
#
# Last Revision   : $Rev: 14 $
# Revision date   : $Date: 2005-02-11 12:06:20 -0800 (Fri, 11 Feb 2005) $
# Last Changed by : $Author: keithl $
# Stored as       : $HeadURL: http://www.dirvish.org/svn/dirvish_1_3_khl/TODO.pod $

=head1 Dirvish ToDo List

List items are not in a prioritised order.

List item marks designate some intent.

=over

=item * to be done before next version.

=item * normal.

=item * ongoing.

=back

=head2 dirvish

=over

=item * Allow vault[:branch] as an argument so --vault and --branch
options aren't needed.

=item * Enhance the B<password-file:> parameter so that if given a
relative path use the config-file search function (when written).

=item * Add a --retry option for retrying a failed dirvish image.

This would require pre-existence of destination image.

Moves summary, log and rsync_error files into try.# directories.

=item * Add a B<meta-owner> parameter like B<meta-perm> to specify a
owner:group for meta-files in images.

=item * Enhance recognition and assessment of rsync errors and
warnings.

=back

=head2 dirvish-expire

=over

=item * Allow vault[:branch] as an argument so --vault option isn't
needed.

=item * Move non-expiration notices to bottom of dirvish-expire output.

=item * Put functionality for doing cleanups of hist files to deal with
deleted backups somewhere in dirvish-expire. A possible approach would
be for B<--histck> to remove hist entries having no matching images on
disk. B<--hist> might remove hist entry during expiration but that
would complicate things.

=item * Rework to eliminate the internal find. Have dirvish-expire walk
the vaults like dirvish-locate.

=item * Improve internal logic to handle failed images better. Instead
of using just sort order it should track a latest successful image to
keep. Preferring an unexpired, but saving an expired one if no
unexpired available.

=back

=head2 dirvish-locate

=over

=item * Improve the performance of index file parsing.

=item * Report all file dates with year even those without year in
index.

=back

=head2 dirvish-runall

=over

=item * Allow an optional timespec like expire-rules to make runall
stansas conditional.

=back

=head2 in general

=over

=item * Allow config-file search that searches
I<bank>/I<vault>/B<dirvish>/ also search /B<etc>/B<dirvish>/I<vault>/
for files.

Do this with a new function that can also be called for other
file-based looking.

=item * Add command-line options for non-interactive install.sh runs.

=item * Add the ability to create an initial set of configs to
install.sh.

=back

----

=head1 Dirvish Wish List

These items are low-priority. It is recognised that they have merit and
they have been given some thought but are, at present, not considered
sufficiently important to invest the needed time. If a paying client
wished one of them the priority would change but until that happens or
the author's requirements change they are shelved.

=over

=item * Add a mechanism for dirvish and dirvish-expire to log their
activity.

This would probably a config parameter where you could either specify a
file name or a syslog "facility" such as daemon or local3.

=item * Create a B<dirvish-sync> utility that could syncronize with a
remote vault.

Useful for secondary backup servers and removable hard drives used for
offsites.

This would examine the images in the specified vault. Remove those
images from the destination that are not in the source. For each new
image in creation order rsync the whole image with the best available
reference image for the link-dest. Finish by rsyncing the dirvish
directory if any.

=item * Add option to run arbitrary command instead of rsync.

This would allow dirvish to schedule jobs that don't involve rsync but
belong under the same process management as the main backups. Having to
maintain multiple backup systems and schedulers can be a pain.

=item * Extend EXPIRE-RULES to support multi-stage actions

The date specifier of an expire rule would contain a designator set
elsewhere in the config file. The value of the designator (expire
action) would be a list of date-specs and actions to be done.

For example:

 expire-rule
 	wd { sun } md { 1-7 }               expire-monthly
 
 expire-monthly
 	+1 month	clean-tree clean_list
 	+6 months	delete-tree
 	+1 year		delete-image

The actual format will probably differ and the image manager
(dirvish-expire) will need to know what to do with the actions and
record completion in the summary file to prevent repeats.

Probable actions would be:

delete-image

delete whole image including metadata.

delete-tree

delete image tree leaving metadata.

compress-tree

create a compressed archive of the tree (tree.cpio.gz) and delete the
tree.

clean-tree

lean the image tree by deleting files that match patterns in a file.

run

run an executable/script.

=item * Add B<--replace> and B<--inplace> to config to allow
overwriting of an existing image.

If reference == image don't delete tree and don't use B<--link-dest>.

If reference != image and B<--replace>, delete image before reuse
because the delta from the reference image is most likely less than the
reused image But if B<--inplace> specified don't delete even if
reference != image. Inplace is especially useful if the backup is
incomplete and you wish to re-run it manually.

=item * Create the scheduler.

Most of the functionality is already documented in dirvish.conf(5) as
comments not visible to man.

The scheduler would generate a priority ordered run queue of jobs that
can be run and launch as many would be permitted by the Max-jobs and
Max-load limits. When a job completes recalculate whether any jobs
still on the queue can run (window and limits) and launch them. If the
queue is empty rescan for jobs that may now be runnable. Exit when
there are no running or runnable jobs.

The scheduler would use a /var/run/dirvish.pid file to prevent multiple
dirvish-sched processes from running at once. The scheduler could be
launched by cron at intervals.

=item * Create a file security like facility

This would examine the xfer log and report changed files after running
them through a filter using include/exclude patterns or rules in a
config file to eliminate expected changes. Excluded files (ones
expected to change) might still be reported if they are suid/sgid.

Deletes would not be detected this way because dirvish doesn't see
them.

=back

=cut

#Pod::HTML2Pod conversion notes:
#From file TODO.html
# 6898 bytes of input
#Thu Feb 10 20:03:04 2005 keithl
# No a_name switch not specified, so will not try to render <a name='...'>
# No a_href switch not specified, so will not try to render <a href='...'>
