=head1 NAME

dirvish-runall - run a set of dirvish backup jobs.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<dirvish-runall>I<[OPTIONS]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Run all the jobs specified in the B<Runall> field of the dirvish master
configuration file.

=head1 OPTIONS

Each option may be unambiguously abbreviated.

B<--config> I<configfile>

Read I<configfile> for the B<Runall:> field. By default
B<dirvish-runall> will use the B<Runall:> field from the master
configuration file.

This will only be used by B<dirvish-runall> itself and not be
propagated to the B<dirvish> processes.

See B<dirvish.conf(5)> for more details.

B<--no-run>

B<--dry-run>

Don't actually do anything. Just display what would have happened.

B<--quiet>

Run quietly, only report errors.

Normally B<dirvish-runall> will report the dirvish commands invoked
with timestamps.

B<--version>

Print the version information and exit.

=head1 EXIT CODES

To facilitate further automation and integration of B<dirvish-runall>
with other tools B<dirvish-runall> provides rationalised exit codes.
The exit codes are range based. While the code for a specific error may
change from one version to another it will remain within the specified
range. So don't test for specific exit codes but instead test for a
range of values. To the degree possible higher value ranges indicate
more severe errors.

=over 10

=item B<0>

success

=item B<1-199>

Number of B<dirvish> jobs that failed. If more than 199 jobs failed 199
will be the exit code.

=item B<200-219>

An error was encountered in loading a configuration file.

=item B<220-254>

An error was detected in the configuration.

=item B<255>

Incorrect usage.

=back

=head1 FILES

B</etc/dirvish/master.conf>

alternate master configuration file.

B</etc/dirvish.conf>

master configuration file.

=head1 SEE ALSO

 dirvish.conf(5)

=head1 AUTHOR

Dirvish was created by J.W. Schultz of Pegasystems Technologies.

Dirvish is now maintained by Keith Lofstrom at www.dirvish.org , with
the able assistance of many others.

=head1 BUGS

=cut
