# dirvish-locate.pod
# 1.3.X series
# Copyright 2005 by the dirvish project
# http://www.dirvish.org
#
# Last Revision   : $Rev$
# Revision date   : $Date$
# Last Changed by : $Author$
# Stored as       : $HeadURL$

=head1 NAME

dirvish-locate - locate file versions in dirvish images

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<dirvish-locate> I<vault>[I<:branch>] I<pattern>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Locate versions of files in a dirvish vault

The index of each image specified I<vault> is searched for paths
matching I<pattern>. Each path found matching the I<pattern> will be
reported followed by a modification time of each version of the file
and all images having a link to it.

The optional I<branch> specification will restrict searching to the
specified branch.

Images with an error status will be skipped as will any without index
files. The index file may be compressed by gzip or bzip2. See B<tree>
and B<index> in B<dirvish.conf(5)> for details.

The I<pattern> is a B<perl> regular expression to match the final
component of the path. Append B<.*> to the end of the pattern if you
wish to match any substring of the whole path or B<$> if you wish to
anchor the pattern to the end of the path. See B<perlre(1)> for
details.

Directories are excluded from matching as they would wind up matching
every file within them anyway. Symlinks are also excluded from
matching.

If the I<pattern> matches too many paths B<dirvish-locate> will only
report the paths matched and not versions. As a sanity check if the
number of matches is really excessive B<dirvish-locate> will limit the
number of images searched. Excessive matches is an indication of an
insufficiently specific I<pattern>. Use the resulting path list to
compose a more specific one.

=head1 EXIT CODES

To facilitate further automation and integration of B<dirvish-locate>
with other tools B<dirvish-locate provides rationalized exit codes.>
The exit codes are range based. While the code for a specific error may
change from one version to another it will remain within the specified
range. So don't test for specific exit codes but instead test for a
range of values. To the degree possible higher value ranges indicate
more severe errors.

=over 10

=item B<0>

success 200-219 An error was encountered in loading a configuration
file.


=item B<220-254>

An error was detected in the configuration.


=item B<255>

Incorrect usage.

=back

=head1 FILES

B</etc/dirvish/master.conf>

alternate master configuration file.

B</etc/dirvish.conf>

master configuration file.

I<bank/vault/image/>B<summary>

image creation summary.

I<bank/vault/image/>B<index>

I<bank/vault/image/>B<index.gz>

I<bank/vault/image/>B<index.bz2>

dirvish index file.

=head1 SEE ALSO

 dirvish.conf(5)

=head1 AUTHOR

Dirvish was created by J.W. Schultz of Pegasystems Technologies.

Dirvish is now maintained by Keith Lofstrom at www.dirvish.org , with
the able assistance of many others.

=head1 BUGS

=cut
