# dirvish-expire.pod
# 1.3.X series
# Copyright 2005 by the dirvish project
# http://www.dirvish.org
#
# Last Revision   : $Rev: 57 $
# Revision date   : $Date: 2005-10-02 03:40:37 +0200 (So, 02 Okt 2005) $
# Last Changed by : $Author: keithl $
# Stored as       : $HeadURL: http://www.dirvish.org/svn/dirvish_1_3_1/dirvish-expire.pod $

=head1 NAME

dirvish-expire - delete expired dirvish images

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<dirvish-expire>I<[OPTIONS]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Delete dirvish image trees or whole images that have expired.

Each image B<summary> file is checked for the B<Expire:> field. If that
field indicates the image has expired B<dirvish-expire> will delete
that image from the vault.

By default all subdirectories of all banks will be treated as vaults
and all directories therein except the one named B<dirvish> will be
checked for summary files.

The removal of an image will have no effect on other images.

B<Dirvish-expire> will not delete an image unless it finds at least one
image in that branch that has an intact image tree and B<Status:
success> in the summary that is not expired.

=head1 OPTIONS

Each option on the command line may be specified any number of times.
Those options that support lists in the config files will accumulate
all of their arguments otherwise each specification will override the
ones before.

Each option may be unambiguously abbreviated.

B<--time> I<time_expression>

Execute as though I<time_expression> were the current time.

I<Time_expression> is processed by B<Time::Parsedate(3pm)> so relative
time and date strings are permitted. See B<Time::Parsedate(3pm)> for
more details.

B<--tree>

Only delete the image tree, leave in place the rest of the image
directory with summary, log and any other image administrative files.

B<--vault> I<vault>

Restrict expiration to the specified I<vault>.

B<--no-run>

Don't actually do anything. Just display what would have happened.

B<--quiet>

Run quietly, only report errors.

Normally B<dirvish-expire> will report the images deleted.

B<--pidfile>

Specify an alternate location for the pidfile.

=head1 EXIT CODES

To facilitate further automation and integration of B<dirvish-expire>
with other tools B<dirvish-expire> provides rationalised exit codes.
The exit codes are range based. While the code for a specific error may
change from one version to another it will remain within the specified
range. So don't test for specific exit codes but instead test for a
range of values. To the degree possible higher value ranges indicate
more severe errors.

=over 10

=item B<0>

success

=item B<200-219>

An error was encountered in loading a configuration file.

=item B<220-254>

An error was detected in the configuration.

=item B<255>

Incorrect usage.

=back

=head1 FILES

B</etc/dirvish/master.conf>

alternate master configuration file.

B</etc/dirvish.conf>

master configuration file.

I<bank/vault/image/>B<summary>

image creation summary.

I<bank/vault/image/>B<tree>

actual image of source directory tree.

=head1 SEE ALSO

 dirvish.conf(5)
 Time::ParseDate(3pm)

=head1 AUTHOR

Dirvish was created by J.W. Schultz of Pegasystems Technologies.

Dirvish is now maintained by Keith Lofstrom at www.dirvish.org , with
the able assistance of many others.

=head1 BUGS

B<Dirvish-expire> will walk the file hierarchy of all banks or the
specified vault looking for summary files. Anything non-dirvish in
there may cause excess file-walking.

=cut
